






# Customer Data Handling Policy

## Customer Data Handling
## Introduction
As a medical manufacturer, [The Company] has a responsibility to handle Protected Health Information (PHI) or electronic Protected Health Information (ePHI) according to the guidelines defined within the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability act.  This data comes to [The Company] as part of providing support and as such is classified as incidental PHI.  This data may be transferred to [The Company] via any number of means such as SNCS, sent through email, copied to a USB drive or copied to a [The Company] workstation or laptop. This data, even when requested to be de-identified, may not always arrive to [The Company] in a de-identified manner.  This document prescribes the actions [The Company] associates and contractors need to take to protect such data under the law.  

In addition, this document is intended to act as a guide regarding the handling of all [The Comnpany] customer or partner data. It is intended to address determining the sensitivity of data, the transport mediums which may be used to transfer customer data, the storage of customer data, and the destruction of that data. 

This document is not intended to address troubleshooting or hardware replacement procedures. The document is not intended to address data generated or owned by [The Company], its affiliates or partners.


## Definitions
**Customer Data** – Customer data is defined as any data specific to a customer, a customer’s clients, patients or employees.  
**Partner Data** - Partner data is defined as any data specific to a customer, a customer’s clients, patients or employees  
**Customer Sensitive Data** – Any data which is sensitive in nature due to its content such as PHI, PII, financial or business specific information  
**PHI – Personal Health Information** is any health information that can be tied to an individual. This includes name, date of birth, medical record number and date of birth.  
**Sensitive Data** – Any data which may be deemed proprietary or private such as Patient Health Information (PHI) or Personally Identifiable Information (PII).   
**SNCS Data** – Instrument specific diagnostic telemetry generated by [The Company] products which may be collected as part of the SNCS platform and related services such as QC, error and reagent information. This data is considered to be [The Company] data  
**[The Company] Data** – Any data generated by and for the purposes of [The Company] business which is not considered Customer Sensitive Data. [The Company] Data can be classified under the [The Company] data classification categories. For more information regarding data classification, see Data Classification Policy.  
**Clear** applies logical techniques to sanitize data in all user-addressable storage locations for protection against simple non-invasive data recovery techniques; typically applied through the standard Read and Write commands to the storage device, such as by rewriting with a new value or using a menu option to reset the device to the factory state (where rewriting is not supported).  
**Purge** applies physical or logical techniques that render Target Data recovery infeasible using state of the art laboratory techniques.  
**Destroy** renders Target Data recovery infeasible using state of the art laboratory techniques and results in the subsequent inability to use the media for storage of data.  

## Policy

SAI will only gather data related to clients, customers, partners and employees necessary to accomplish specific and legitimate transactions, support, investigations, or to comply with specific and applicable laws and regulations.  To guard against internal risks to the confidentiality, integrity and security of data considered sensitive or confidential or classified as Confidential or above, and to provide for the evaluation and improving of controls to safeguard that data the following policies shall be enacted:

-	Data collected shall be limited as much as possible to that which allows only for the legitimate transaction of business and support, or to comply with appropriate government laws and regulations.

-	Access to classified information will be limited in accordance with existing corporate procedures (COP-0076) regarding data classification and access. 

-	Written and electronic records shall be securely destroyed or deleted at the earliest opportunity consistent with business  and law enforcement needs and legal requirements
- Third item
  - Business Needs
  -	Examples (PHI / PII) data
    - End of investigation clear / delete from [The Company] environment
    - Customer no longer with [The Company]
    - Complaint legal timeframe to maintain data

•	Consistent with business needs and legal requirements, electronic data containing Customer non-sensitive data shall be cleared through deletion

•	Electronic storage mediums which may store sensitive, confidential or higher classification data shall be encrypted to protect data at rest and securely wiped via multiple overwrite methods: See NIST SP 
•	Electronic storage mediums no longer needed shall be cleared cleaned based on the following decision matrix.

•	Customer Sensitive data shall be securely deleted as soon as possible consistent with business needs and legal 	requirements.  

•	All hardcopy data no longer needed shall be placed in the provided data destruction receptacles positioned around the SAI campuses.

•	Breaches in data handling shall be corrected and reported as soon as possible to minimize risk

### USB Flash Drive Handling
1.	All USB drives used for SNCS are to remain with the computer
2.	Any drives deemed “defective” should be transferred to the Lab Manager or designee for destruction and disposal according to their IT group’s policies and procedures.
3.	Encryption
    -	Any USB drives used in customer or partner environments are to be encrypted
    -	The FSR may obtain an approved, encrypted USB drive from the customer. 
    -	An encrypted USB drive may be ordered from [The Company] Service Parts (part number 32G-Encryptedusb) 

Note* At DoD, VA and Indian Health sites is may be necessary to present the USB drive, in its original packaging, to the customer for registration by the customer IT department.
4.	All operations involving transfer of ownership should be documented in the RID.


### Instrument Hard Drives On Site:
-	Customer storage media which is removed from an IPU is to be handled as dictated by the customer’s IT department requirements unless explicitly specified by the customer and all PHI and PII has been deleted as appropriate.
-	Storage devices must be subject to secure erasure or destruction to an extent that no data may be recovered.
-	In order to comply with security requirements, storage media which is removed from an IPU is to be handled as dictated by the customer’s IT department requirements. The most efficient way to do this is to document the drive and hand it over to the customer IT or their designee.

| Step	| Action |
| -------- | ------- |
| 1 |	Replace the hard drive. |
| 2 | Document the serial numbers for the old and new hard drives in the RID |
| 3 |	Give the “defective” hard drive to the Lab Manager or designee for disposal. |
| 4 |	Instruct the receiving customer contact to destroy and/or dispose of the hard drive according to their institutional policies and procedures. |
| 5 |	Document the receiving customer contact in the RID |



### Instrument Hard Drives Off-Site

-	While in almost all cases, storage media such as usb and hard drives remain on site and are remanded to the customer for destruction. There may be times when drives are brought outside the customer environment. These are to be dealt with in the following manner.

## Supplemental 
#### Mechanical Hard Drive Sanitization:

Clear: Overwrite media by using organizationally approved and validated overwriting technologies/methods/tools. The pattern should be at least one write pass encrypting the data on the drive or the use of the KillDisk program to write pass with fixed data value, such as all zeros. Multiple write passes or more complex values may optionally be used.

Destroy: Shred, Disintegrate, Pulverize, or Incinerate by burning the device in a licensed incinerator

#### Flash Based Drive Sanitization

**Clear:** Overwrite media by using organizationally approved and tested overwriting technologies/methods/tools. The Clear procedure should consist of at least one pass of writes with a fixed data value, such as all zeros. Multiple passes or more complex values may alternatively be used. Note: It is important to note that overwrite on flash-based media may significantly reduce the effective lifetime of the media and it may not sanitize the data in unmapped physical media (i.e., the old data may still remain on the media).

**Destroy:** Shred, Disintegrate, Pulverize, or Incinerate by burning the device in a licensed incinerator.

